Time Complexity:
The time complexity of the function mainly depends on the number of tuples in the input list. 
For each tuple, the function performs dictionary operations (insertions or appends). 
On average, dictionary operations in Python have an average time complexity of O(1) when you consider 
a large number of insertions. However, in the worst-case scenario, when there are hash collisions or 
dictionary resizing, the time complexity can be up to O(n). 
This is because the dictionary may need to rehash and reorganize its internal structure.

Since each tuple in the input list is processed independently, and the dictionary operations are constant 
on average, the overall time complexity of the function is O(n) in the average case. 
However, it can be up to O(n^2) in the worst-case scenario when all the tuples have the same key, 
resulting in many collisions and resizing.

Space Complexity:
The space complexity is determined by the size of the output dictionary. 
In the worst case, if all the tuples in the input list have different keys, 
the dictionary will have n unique keys. Since each key can have a list of values 
associated with it, the total space complexity for the dictionary would be O(n).

In addition to the dictionary, the function uses a few variables with constant space requirements 
(e.g., "key," "value," "result_dict," etc.), which do not depend on the size of the input list 
and can be ignored in big O notation.

So, the overall space complexity of the function is O(n) in the worst case.

In summary:

Time complexity: O(n) on average, but up to O(n^2) in the worst-case scenario with hash collisions and resizing.
Space complexity: O(n) in the worst case.

Since the function needs to examine every tuple to group them by their first elements, 
there is no way to improve the time complexity beyond O(n). However, you can make some minor 
optimizations to improve the constant factors and reduce the overhead.

One possible optimization is to use the collections.defaultdict class from the collections module,
 which automatically initializes the dictionary with a default value (in this case, an empty list) 
 for new keys. This can make the function slightly faster than using a regular dictionary.

 The time complexity remains O(n), but this version should be slightly faster due to the 
 internal optimizations of defaultdict.

Other than that, if the input list is sorted by the first element of the tuples, you can 
further optimize the function by using a single pass through the list. But if the input list 
is unsorted or if you cannot change the input order, the best time complexity you can achieve is still O(n).